Hi. I'm
Lucy, and I'm a guidance counselor
here at Port Elgin Regional School.
Today, I'm going to talk to you
about restorative circles.
And so what this looks like,
what a restorative circle is to us.
At me is, a student can request,
a start of school
with another student or teacher.
Some maybe someone that they're having
an issue with, or maybe a group of friends
would like to request
a restorative circle with
someone in their class,
or someone else in their friend group.
That's that's bugging them or something's
going on.
Maybe something happened at recess
and they need to figure it out.
They can request a restorative circle.
How it's requested is
students can request it themselves.
A teacher could request like, oh, maybe.
Can you do a restorative circle
with these students?
I think it would be kind of useful.
That's how restorative
circles are requested.
What they look like is I generally
it changes a little bit depending on
why they want a restorative cycle, but
I try and lay it out similar every time.
So I will start,
like in a circle
and reviewing kind of expectations.
So, only one student talking at a time.
And that's the student
with the talking piece.
They'll all get a chance to share.
So they just have to make sure
that they're listening with the heart
to the other students,
as well as getting to share themselves,
and that it's a safe space.
So whatever's said in the circle
that we have today
is kind of stays in the circle.
Don't talk about it on the playground.
After,
and the way that I lay it out
is I usually start by getting students
to take it in turns to share
what happened, because I don't always know
exactly what happened.
If especially it was a playground
incident, like,
okay, just tell me what
happened. Like, I don't know.
So how
what, what happened or what's going on,
how you're feeling about it.
And that can go two ways,
like how you felt about it at the time,
how you feel about it now
and then, things that, like,
where can we go from here?
So students, I get students
to individually think about what they can
do personally to help this situation
and what they need from other students.
So maybe,
maybe a student might share.
What I can do in this situation
is I can personally walk off if you're,
if you're annoying me or whatever.
Or, and what I need from you is to,
if I say no, to stop to
to listen to my no.
And that would be an example of that.
Yeah.
That's how it's that's how it's laid out.
It can happen like, anywhere.
Like in the guidance office,
in the principal's office.
In the classroom, if there's.
I don't tend to do it if there's, like,
other students in the class.
But if it's an empty classroom.
Yeah,
So it came about,
quite organically, actually.
Admin is very,
good at restorative practices and
really encourages restorative practices
within the school over punishment.
And it kind of just came about organically
that way.
I remember last year,
there was a group of,
boys in middle school
that had that requested a circle
with another student in that class,
but which was kind of cool.
And just from there, like either
other students have requested it
or sometimes I, I'm like, okay,
this would be a good time
to maybe do a restorative circle.
Like,
is that something you're interested in?
And so it just came about that way.
okay.
Some tips and tricks
for restorative circles.
So one tip I would say is students
don't have to join it.
Like I never force a student
to join a restorative circle.
I always ask,
maybe I'll say, oh, your friend
Bill and Barb
have requested a circle with you.
Would you like to join us and
they can say yes
or no, although I haven't actually
ever had a student say no.
So that's maybe a good size.
So, another tip would be for younger
students,
you can, always do a restorative circle,
but a great resource,
a fantastic teacher in our school found
was something called a peace path.
So, students, it's laid out on the floor.
It's very similar to Restorative Circle.
Similar questions,
but they just face each other
and they kind of move down the path.
And like answering the questions,
sharing how they feel.
And then when they get to the end of the
path, that's when they, same ideas.
And so they come up with some like things
that they can do to resolve it,
and maybe they leave the circle
with a high five or a hug
or maybe they just walk away
and, say the differences.